### Primitive Data Types:

- Primitive data types in Java are the most basic data types that are predefined by the language. 
- They represent simple values and are stored directly in memory. 
- The Java programming language **supports eight primitive data types**, each with a specific size and range, and they are used to store numerical values, characters, and boolean values.

#### 1. **byte:** 8-bit signed integer

```java
byte myByte = 127;
```

#### 2. **short:** 16-bit signed integer..

```java
short myShort = 32767;
```

#### 3. **int:** 32-bit signed integer.

```java
int myInt = 2147483647;
```

#### 4. **long:** 64-bit signed integer..

```java
long myLong = 9223372036854775807L;
```

#### 5. **float:** 32-bit floating-point number.

```java
float myFloat = 3.14f;
```

#### 6. **double:** 64-bit floating-point number.

```java
double myDouble = 3.14;
```

#### 7. **char:** 16-bit Unicode character.

```java
char myChar = 'A';
```

#### 8.  **boolean:** Represents true or false.

```java
boolean myBoolean = true;
```

---


### Reference (Non-Primitive) Data Types:

Reference data types in Java are more complex data types that do not store the actual data but instead store references or memory addresses of objects. They include user-defined types such as classes and interfaces, as well as built-in types like arrays and enums.

#### 1.  **String:** Represents a sequence of characters.

```java
String myString = "Hello, Java!";
```

#### 2.  **Array:** Represents a collection of elements of the same type.

```java
int[] myArray = {1, 2, 3, 4, 5};
```


#### 3. **Class Types (Objects):** Instances of user-defined classes.

```java
class Person {
    String name;
    int age;
}

Person myPerson = new Person();
```

#### 4. **Interfaces, Enums, Arrays:** Other non-primitive types in Java.s.


In summary, primitive data types are simple, built-in data types representing basic values, whereas reference data types are more complex, user-defined or built-in types that store references to objects or instances of classes, interfaces, enums, etc. The distinction is essential for understanding how data is stored and manipulated in Java programs.